Jose Soto										   	
02/15/2021												
CISC 3140-MW2
Lab 1

When we broke out into the groups the first thing we did once we waited for everyone to get funneled in was first decide on WHAT the app was going to be.  The conversation was interesting since unlike a normal classroom we had people communicating in Zoom both by voice chat and text chat, so the conversation moved a lot between the 2, so we had to be able to pay attention to both as we moved from topic to topic.  After some debate we ended up going with an ATM locator app that someone had suggested.  While it was seen at first to be a little silly as we all live in New York City and there are banks and ATMs everywhere, someone made the point in support of the idea that if we think of the country as a whole, ATMs are not going to be as densely populated in many places compared to here, and with people looking to move out of the cities as Work-From-Home becomes more popular it could be very useful for new residents to have a good idea as to where machines in their new neighborhood are located.  We did consider other ideas before settling on this, mainly e-waste disposal areas and public bathroom locators(for similar reasons as we chose ATM locator) but ultimately we made our final decision just based on a group consensus.  

We discussed the idea of splitting into smaller teams although we didn’t physically go through with it.  With the app decided on we discussed exactly what was needed to create it, deciding on splitting up into groups of front-end and back-end and figuring out what skills we had among ourselves to see in which of the 2 we would fit.  One major issue I saw was that while many of us were vocal and looking to move the conversation along once we had decided on a course of action, no-one had really come out in terms of declaring themselves the Project Manager of the group, or even brought the subject up.  If we had kept going from this point it would have been something that we needed as we coordinating a group of that size is a lot of effort.  Even if we went a Agile Software Engineering process method like Scrum where everyone is assigned tasks suited to their strengths, someone would have to be the Product Owner and/or Scrum Master to make sure the tasks were A) being created and assigned with the end goal of a functional web-app in mind and B) keeping track of the tasks after the end of the current sprint to see what was done and how much we have left to go.  I’m not sure whether it wasn’t brought up due to time constraints from the discussion or, the more likely scenario, no one wanted to volunteer to do the extra work and stress that this position in this hypothetical scenario would entail.

Overall it was a very interesting experience just talking with people with similar experience to myself in this test scenario.  A group of that size you kind of got almost all the personality types mixed in so just by observing the conversation as it happened, you could kind of see exactly what everyone was thinking during the process.